- [Instructor] H+ Sport IT Department has now requested
that you weigh the advantages and disadvantages
of H+ Sport drink using Payara.
There are many things to take in account.
Let's consider the advantages of using Payara for a moment.
Payara is a drop-in replacement for GlassFish.
This means that if you're needing
to replace your GlassFish server instances due to licensing,
support, or whatever the reason,
you can simply download, install, configure,
and your existing JEE web applications will just run
on Payara without making tweaks
to your application's code base or dependencies.
Because it's a drop-in replacement for GlassFish,
this also means that it can perform
at the same certification level of GlassFish 5, at JEE 8.
Payara can't claim specifically a Java certification due
to other constraints, so Payara addresses
the JEE certification question
by stating that Payara is compatible at the same level
of certification of GlassFish.
Payara is also downstream of GlassFish,
meaning that it has all of the bug fixes
and releases from GlassFish,
but it also provides quarter releases for community
and monthly patches for customers.
Payara's relationship to GlassFish means
that it not only incorporates upstream bug fixes
and patches, but Payara contains tooling
that's not available in GlassFish, like deployment groups,
which enhances GlassFish's server clustering capabilities.
Speaking of clustering, Payara uses, behind the scenes,
Hazelcast and In-Memory Data Grid to cache sessions.
Storing sessions in Hazelcast means
that session data is stored in multiple copies
and kept synchronized across server group members,
which provides session availability if
and when a Payara node goes down for maintenance
or other unforeseen issues.
Another nice feature of Payara is its administrative
web console.
It maintains a similar layout to GlassFish,
making it easy to navigate, but also attempts
to put common tasks up front
so you don't have to drill down in the left navigation
for frequent tasks like deploying an app,
altering a user credential, monitoring logs,
or modifying database resources.
Payara, additionally, incorporates long-standing support
for GlassFish's command-line interface, the CLI,
which is very important in modern server infrastructures
for maintaining and quickly sending commands
to Payara without navigating the browser.
There are probably much more that can be said,
like paid support available for Payara,
the availability to use JDKs other than Oracle's JDK,
Payara IDE integration with Eclipse, Netbeans, and IntelliJ,
or Payara's Docker support.
So, those are some of the advantages,
but what about the disadvantages?
We touched on this somewhat, but Payara can't claim,
per se, a Java EE 7 or 8 certification.
It gets around this by talking about this in terms
of drop-in replacement for GlassFish.
Is this a disadvantage?
Not sure, but Payara seems to sidestep the question,
maybe for legal reasons, in all their official
developer blogs and customer-facing sites.
Another issue that could, again, be a showstopper
for many is that Payara, as of this video,
can currently only run on JDK8.
It will not run on nine or above.
If your organization is constrained
by using more recent Java versions,
well, this is something to consider.
So, some closing thoughts here for Payara.
There is a low cost of entry for using Payara
since it's open-source, but you can also purchase
paid support as well.
And Payara has a long history through GlassFish,
and I hope to see that continue.